some people will have cognitive and
psychological effects almost like PTSD
after an episode like that and I'm sure
it will influence his own personal
thinking Boris Johnson has revealed in a
dramatic series of interviews in the Sun
that doctors were preparing to announce
his death from covert 19 because he was
so sick with the virus so of course that
does show that things were far more
serious in terms of the prime minister's
health than we will lead to believe at
the time which has got us thinking will
this impact how Boris Johnson removes
the lockdown maybe in a more
conservative manner as we head into
Phase two let me bring in dr. Hillary
Jones Hillary what did you make of this
interview and do you think that Boris
Johnson's brush with death is going to
impact the policy making decisions from
now on yeah hello Dan
it is obvious that you don't get as far
as critical care and intensive care
unless you're very sick indeed and
clearly the Prime Minister was at the
time they I think considered ventilating
him but he managed to survive without
the need for ventilation which is a
major step and clearly he was very sick
indeed and I think that it's very few
people can go through an experience like
that and not to be very much influenced
by it not to be touched by it to a
degree whereby you certainly take it
seriously some people will have
cognitive and psychological effects
almost like PTSD after an episode like
that and I'm sure it will influence his
own personal thinking but I imagine that
the decisions that are made about easing
lockdown will be made in cabinet or
through Cobra meetings with scientific
advice from several inputs so I don't
think it'll be just him making the
decisions I think
you look at it in a measured way but he
will be only too aware from a personal
experience that this is a very nasty
virus a very lethal virus for a
proportion of the population and I'm
sure he will be very cautious in putting
people's health before economics but in
a balanced way that that is is as
reasonable as can it can it can possibly
be
Doctore lots of talk are in the news
today that they could be hope about a
reliable antibody test well get you to
address that during our first question
from Liz Lee giddy and Leslie asks do
you know how long antibodies for kovat
19 last in the body and how close are we
to an antibody test for the general
population will this hopeful is lean
ours and their doctor hills there really
is and this is the kind of one of the
Holy Grails we've been looking for and
throughout this pandemic we've wanted to
know to what extent people are immune
after they've suffered from Kovach 19
and how long that immunity lasts now we
don't know the answer to the second
question because the virus has only been
around for four months so we won't know
for some months to go how long immunity
lasts but we're much nearer to finding a
reliable antibody test it's it's been
known for some time that there have been
antibody tests around but they just
haven't been reliable enough only
seventy percent some of them have been
reliable enough and that just isn't good
enough because it would give a lot of
people the idea that they are immune
when they're not then when they haven't
had the virus and for other people it
would tell them that they haven't had
the the virus when they have and so an
unreliable test is worse than no test at
all because it can be dangerous in that
situation we now have maybe two weeks
away from Roche Diagnostics a test which
is a hundred percent sensitive and
ninety-nine point eight
specific in other words it won't give
false negatives and it won't give hardly
any false positives which is exactly
what we want it's reliable it's accurate
and another test being brought forward
in Edinburgh doing the same things as
just as reliable and NHS tests we'll be
able to carry these antibody tests out
on a blood sample and tell much more
accurately whether someone's had the
virus and has immunity and then when we
do serial tests we'll be able to find
out how long that immunity lasts so
there is good hope for optimism that in
just a few weeks we will have many many
thousands of antibody tests that will
give people the information that we need
very promising news Teager Bassam asks
next how can we avoid covert 19 when we
return to work well we we need to be
really vigilant because we know that the
virus will still be circulating just
because most of us have been in lockdown
doesn't mean to say that the virus has
gone away hundreds of thousands of
people have been at work and they've had
to have been at work we needed doctors
and nurses and delivery drivers and
cleaners and porters and public
transport workers people driving trains
and buses we needed them all to stay at
work paramedics and police that hundreds
of thousands of people and of course the
virus is still out there
circulating so when we come out of
lockdown we will need to be careful
about reducing our risk of transmission
of the virus and that means regularly
washing our hands it means keeping a
social distance from other people
whether we're going back to work or just
going to the shop we will need to
continue to do this for some time until
such time that we have an effective
vaccine that is safe and you know for
people who are in the high-risk groups
and the vulnerable groups even more
important to stay vigilant to be careful
and to stay at home as much as possible
and the last question today has been
sent in by Mary Rankin hi dr. Hillary I
have a question for you it's in relation
to visiting a corona virus testing
can you get coronavirus by visiting the
test center and could you get Cola
Meyers from the test itself thank you
well Mary the answer is you can't get it
from a test kit the test kit is sterile
it's been it's been sealed it's
completely 100% safe and it'll be
delivered by a trained person the swab
is taken of the nose and the and the
throat and that person will be protected
wearing a mask and keeping a reasonable
distance from you so the risk of having
the test is minimal absolutely minimal
and the second part of her question Dan
was she also wanted to know whether you
could get it from visiting a test center
yeah yeah wherever the test center is
whether it's the test that's been sent
to you at home whether it's a mobile
unit that is coming to your place of
work whether it is in a hospital or
whether it is in a care home most tests
sent to your home it is a completely
safe test great news if you have a
question for dr. Hillary you can use the
hashtag ask dr. Hillary on social media
or if you want to go to our website you
can do that to the son code at UK
forward slash dr. Hillary or talk radio
don't code out UK and Hillary will be
here answering more of your questions
tomorrow so Hillary will speak to you
then all right then look forward to
you